doc/2-UserManual/5-ShortRangeForces.md, before:



Short Range Forces {#shortRange}
================================



Overview {#srOverview}
======================


Two different short range forces have been implemented in FFEA. They are 
 mutually exclusive, so you need to choose which one to use. In any case, 
 you need to set:

     < calc_vdw = 1 > 

to turn them on. In addition, these short ranged forces are acting between 
 active faces. Active faces will be read from the file:

     < vdw = my-system.vdw >

where "my-system" is whatever the file you have, and this field is 
 included into the ` <conformation> ` block in the input .ffea file.
 The ` vdw ` file is a text file that starts with the lines:

     ffea vdw file
     num_faces Number-Of-Active-Faces
     vdw params:

where "Number-Of-Active-Faces" is the number of faces that your system has 
 pointing outwards, and every line can have values ranging from -1, 
 corresponding to **inactive**, up to 7 for the rest of faces types. 
 This file should have been automatically generated when
  [configuring the system](\ref makeffeablob), 
 with all the faces set up to "inactive", 
 and it can be easily configured using the [FFEA viewer](\ref FFEAviewer).

The next thing you need is to put a box in your system. This means giving values for
 ` es_h `, ` es_N_x `, ` es_N_y ` and ` es_N_z `, as well as for ` kappa `. See the
 [keyword reference](\ref paramBlock) to get information on the values that these
 fields should have. 


    




Lennard-Jones potential {#ljPotential}
======================================

In the case of setting:

    < vdw_type = lennard-jones > 

the well known 6-12 Lennard-Jones potential:
\f[

  U_{i,j}(r) = \epsilon_{i,j} \left[ \left( \frac{\sigma_{i,j}}{r} \right)^{12} - 2 \left( \frac{\sigma_{i,j}}{r} \right)^6 \right]

\f]

is used to measure surface-surface interactions between all the possible set of 
 face pairs, where \f$\sigma_{i,j}\f$ is the equilibrium separation distance, and 
 \f$\epsilon_{i,j}\f$ is the depth of the energy well at \f$r = r_{i,j}\f$ 
 per surface unit for two faces interacting of faces `i` and `j`. 
 A `lj` file containing the different \f$\sigma_{ij}\f$ and \f$\epsilon_{i,j}\f$ 
 interacting parameters for all the possible face pairs is needed as input. 
 This file, has to be given in the .ffea as:
   
     < vdw_forcefield_params = your-file.lj >

and has the format:


     ffea vdw forcefield params file
     num_vdw_face_types 7
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+15, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+15, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)

where the matrix provides the values (\f$\epsilon_{i,j}\f$, \f$\sigma_{i,j}\f$) in 
  \f$J/m^2\f$ and \f$m\f$, respectively. 

 

```python 
 "Is there any cutoff? Probably just the size of the cells..."
 
 "Has the surface-surface interaction been described in any paper, so far?"

 "Otherwise we should describe it here..."
 ```

Because of being a surface-surface interaction, the larger the faces interacting 
 the stronger the interaction. 



Steric potential {#sPotential}
==============================
 In the case of setting:

      < vdw_type = steric >

 a steric repulsion that is proportional to the overlapping of the tetrahedra 
  of the interacting faces will be calculated. More specifically, the repulsive 
  energy will be proportional to the volume of the overlapping tetrahedra, and 
  the repulsive force proportional to the gradient of this volume in the direction
  of the line joining the node in every tetrahedra that is not part of the interacting face.
 The magnitude of this interaction can be modulated through a single parameter, 
  
      < vdw_steric_factor = F >

 where ` F ` is a value to be provided. In the case of being negative, the 
  user will receive a warning. 

Combination potential {#cPotential}
==============================
 In the case of setting:

      < vdw_type = ljsteric >

 a piecewise combination of the steric potential and the lennard-jones potentials is used.
  Because hard-core surface - surface lennard-jones repulsion is much less stable than the softer volume - volume
  steric repulsion, we use the following protocol:

\f[  U_{i,j}(r) = \left\{
\begin{array}{ll}
      steric & r\leq 0 \\
      \epsilon_{i,j} \left[ 2\left(\frac{r}{\sigma_{i,j}}\right)^{3} - 3\left(\frac{r}{\sigma_{i,j}} \right)^2 \right]  & 0 < r\leq \sigma_{i,j} \\
      \epsilon_{i,j} \left[ \left(\frac{\sigma_{i,j}}{r}\right)^{12} - 2\left(\frac{\sigma_{i,j}}{r} \right)^6 \right]& r > \sigma_{i,j} \\
\end{array} 
\right. \f]

 Very short range interactions are dealt with using the volume-volume steric interactions, and `long range' using standard 
  lennard-jones interactions. The intermediate region uses an interpolated funtion, for which the function itself and it's first derivative
  are both continuous at the boundaries, and for \f$r = \sigma_{i,j}\f$, we still find a minumum in the energy, giving us zero force
  at that point.

Commit message:

[Doc] new keyword 'inc_self_vdw' documented.
Former-commit-id: 9edb2d3859507610c4c9b250cf776d87b4a0dbf9
Former-commit-id: 068e9b4bb657bcc011957442a20e1d9ba13cd5d9

doc/2-UserManual/5-ShortRangeForces.md, after:



Short Range Forces {#shortRange}
================================



Overview {#srOverview}
======================


Two different short range forces have been implemented in FFEA. They are 
 mutually exclusive, so you need to choose which one to use. In any case, 
 you need to set:

     < calc_vdw = 1 > 

to turn them on. In addition, these short ranged forces are acting between 
 active faces. Active faces will be read from the file:

     < vdw = my-system.vdw >

where "my-system" is whatever the file you have, and this field is 
 included into the ` <conformation> ` block in the input .ffea file.
 The ` vdw ` file is a text file that starts with the lines:

     ffea vdw file
     num_faces Number-Of-Active-Faces
     vdw params:

where "Number-Of-Active-Faces" is the number of faces that your system has 
 pointing outwards, and every line can have values ranging from -1, 
 corresponding to **inactive**, up to 7 for the rest of faces types. 
 This file should have been automatically generated when
  [configuring the system](\ref makeffeablob), 
 with all the faces set up to "inactive", 
 and it can be easily configured using the [FFEA viewer](\ref FFEAviewer).

Another keyword ` inc_self_vdw ` will determine whether interactions due 
 to interacting faces within the same blob are taken into account (default, 1) or not (0). 

The next thing you need is to put a box in your system. This means giving values for
 ` es_h `, ` es_N_x `, ` es_N_y ` and ` es_N_z `, as well as for ` kappa `. See the
 [keyword reference](\ref paramBlock) to get information on the values that these
 fields should have. 


    




Lennard-Jones potential {#ljPotential}
======================================

In the case of setting:

    < vdw_type = lennard-jones > 

the well known 6-12 Lennard-Jones potential:
\f[

  U_{i,j}(r) = \epsilon_{i,j} \left[ \left( \frac{\sigma_{i,j}}{r} \right)^{12} - 2 \left( \frac{\sigma_{i,j}}{r} \right)^6 \right]

\f]

is used to measure surface-surface interactions between all the possible set of 
 face pairs, where \f$\sigma_{i,j}\f$ is the equilibrium separation distance, and 
 \f$\epsilon_{i,j}\f$ is the depth of the energy well at \f$r = r_{i,j}\f$ 
 per surface unit for two faces interacting of faces `i` and `j`. 
 A `lj` file containing the different \f$\sigma_{ij}\f$ and \f$\epsilon_{i,j}\f$ 
 interacting parameters for all the possible face pairs is needed as input. 
 This file, has to be given in the .ffea as:
   
     < vdw_forcefield_params = your-file.lj >

and has the format:


     ffea vdw forcefield params file
     num_vdw_face_types 7
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+15, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+15, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)
     (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10) (1e+13, 5e-10)

where the matrix provides the values (\f$\epsilon_{i,j}\f$, \f$\sigma_{i,j}\f$) in 
  \f$J/m^2\f$ and \f$m\f$, respectively. 

 

```python 
 "Is there any cutoff? Probably just the size of the cells..."
 
 "Has the surface-surface interaction been described in any paper, so far?"

 "Otherwise we should describe it here..."
 ```

Because of being a surface-surface interaction, the larger the faces interacting 
 the stronger the interaction. 



Steric potential {#sPotential}
==============================
 In the case of setting:

      < vdw_type = steric >

 a steric repulsion that is proportional to the overlapping of the tetrahedra 
  of the interacting faces will be calculated. More specifically, the repulsive 
  energy will be proportional to the volume of the overlapping tetrahedra, and 
  the repulsive force proportional to the gradient of this volume in the direction
  of the line joining the node in every tetrahedra that is not part of the interacting face.
 The magnitude of this interaction can be modulated through a single parameter, 
  
      < vdw_steric_factor = F >

 where ` F ` is a value to be provided. In the case of being negative, the 
  user will receive a warning. 

Combination potential {#cPotential}
==============================
 In the case of setting:

      < vdw_type = ljsteric >

 a piecewise combination of the steric potential and the lennard-jones potentials is used.
  Because hard-core surface - surface lennard-jones repulsion is much less stable than the softer volume - volume
  steric repulsion, we use the following protocol:

\f[  U_{i,j}(r) = \left\{
\begin{array}{ll}
      steric & r\leq 0 \\
      \epsilon_{i,j} \left[ 2\left(\frac{r}{\sigma_{i,j}}\right)^{3} - 3\left(\frac{r}{\sigma_{i,j}} \right)^2 \right]  & 0 < r\leq \sigma_{i,j} \\
      \epsilon_{i,j} \left[ \left(\frac{\sigma_{i,j}}{r}\right)^{12} - 2\left(\frac{\sigma_{i,j}}{r} \right)^6 \right]& r > \sigma_{i,j} \\
\end{array} 
\right. \f]

 Very short range interactions are dealt with using the volume-volume steric interactions, and `long range' using standard 
  lennard-jones interactions. The intermediate region uses an interpolated funtion, for which the function itself and it's first derivative
  are both continuous at the boundaries, and for \f$r = \sigma_{i,j}\f$, we still find a minumum in the energy, giving us zero force
  at that point.
